# The Sprint Cycle

## Sprint

A sprint is a timeboxed set of time. Each sprint should be comparable in the number of mandays. Planned vacation and national holidays should be taken into account when mapping out upcoming sprints to make sure each sprint is as comparable as possible. However, there will always be unforseen events that occur and limits our resources, such as sick days and other emergencies. These are expected to be averaged out over time and should not be taken into account when planning sprints.

In summary, these events may increase the number of (calendar) days in a sprint:

- Planned vacation or similar reasons we might lack people, such as planned parental leave
- National holidays
- Team building events

These events may not increase the number of (calendar) days in a sprint:

- Sick days
- Bad luck
- Mistakes or obvious misunderstandings or miscommunications made by us

Note that a sprint can never be extended **ONCE IT HAS STARTED**. The number of calendar days in a sprint is set before it starts and never changes.

## Sprint Commitment

Every sprint should be of equal size. We do not strive to increase the sprint size for a given project over time. We favor predictability over sheer output. However, we hope, and always strive, to increase the overall velocity of the team by removing things that slows us down. We don't increase velocity by working longer hours. We save our resources for those times where we fight an uphill battle. An uphill battle brought upon us by ourselves by mistakes or over-promising.

It is the team that ultimately makes the commitment and delivers it to the customer and product owner. From the start of the sprint to the end of it, the team has full ownership of delivering on the needs specified in the items in the sprint.

## Sprint Summary

At the end of each sprint, the team compiles a sprint summary. This summary should be in written form and distributed to the custoemr and product owner, often as part of the Sprint Demo meeting.

The sprint summary should contain the following:

- A short story (1-2 paragraphs) that summarises the overall theme of the sprint. What was the focus and how the work progressed
- A list of the PBIs that was committed to
- A list of which PBIs has been delivered
- A list if things that was done, PBIs or otherwise, that was not specified in the commitment but was done anyway

## Ritual: The Sprint Demo

## Ritual: The Stand Up

## Bugs

We will never estimate bugs. Bugs are mistakes generated by us and we take full responsibility for our mistakes. Therefor Bugs should slow us down. They should lower the velocity. We must work harder to keep our pace if we introduce bugs.

For this to work, we need to have a clear definition of what a bug is.

### A bug is something that is:

- Obviously broken or
- Prevents the user from accomplishing the task that the system is designed to perform or
- Prevents the system to fulfill the need that the system was designed to fulfill

### A bug is not (unless it's also anything of the above):

A behavior that is unexpected from the user's perspective. Because expectations are subjective and there are billions of people with different expectations. This is merely a matter of quality. A high quality system meets the expectations of most of it's users.