# Bugs

## Definition

We will never estimate bugs. Bugs are mistakes generated by us and we take full responsibility for our mistakes. Therefor Bugs should slow us down. They should lower the velocity. We must work harder to keep our pace if we introduce bugs.

For this to work, we need to have a clear definition of what a bug is.

### A bug is something that is:

- Prevents the user from accomplishing the task that the system is designed to perform or
- Prevents the system to fulfill the need that the system was designed to fulfill
- Can be tied to a previous change made by the team

### A bug is not (unless it's also anything of the above):

- Something that can be improved
- A behavior that is unexpected from the user's perspective. Because expectations are subjective and there are billions of people with different expectations. This is merely a matter of quality. A high quality system meets the expectations of most of it's users.

## Anatomy of a Bug

Since by definition, a bug is always tied to previous work, we can always assume that there is always a PBI that introduced the bug. Therefor, bugs always need to reference the PBI that it originated from. A bug always re-opens a PBI until the fix is done, judging by the Definition of Done for the team.

Apart from a reference to a previous PBI, a bug must include:

- The steps needed to reproduce/demonstrate the issue, either as a numbered list or a video. Clarity is more important than format.
- An explanation why this is a bug and what the expected behaviour should be

Feel free to use the following template when creating a bug:

```
Perform the following steps:

1.

According to the PBI that stated [...]
At step #, the system should have [...]
```

Here's an example of a good bug report:

```
Perform the following steps:

1. Go to a product listings page
2. Resize the screen/viewport so that it's smaller than 768px
3. Notice that the facets in the sidebar disappears as the viewport shrink

According to the PBI that stated that visitors (regardless of device) should be able to filter the products.
At step 3, the system should have allowed the user to filter the products using the facets.
```

## Managing bugs in Azure DevOps (Visual Studio Team Services)

In Azure DevOps, Team Sprint Boards are configured to manage bugs as sub-tasks of PBIs. This means that all bugs must have a parent PBI, and can not have child Tasks. Apart from that, Bugs and managed in the same way as regular Tasks.

When a bug is found in a PBI marked as "Done", the PBI must be re-opened until the bug is fixed. Bugs are generally put into the the current sprint.